---
title: Conditional Rendering
---

# Conditional Rendering

All right, so we know how to display content and I even gave an example of conditional rendering using a ternary operator already.

But sometimes you want to render more than a single expression conditionally. Maybe you want to render entire DOM elements based on some condition.

## `v-show`

First, note we are using a `boolean` variable `showAnswer` to control whether _the answer_ is shown or not. Try updating it to `true` in the playground and you will obviously see the answer (_42_) appear on the page.

````file:/src/App.vue title="App.vue" /showAnswer/ /v-show=/ collapse={8-15, 29-59}
-
```

This is because we are making use of the `v-show` directive on the `<strong>
` element. But one interesting detail is that the directive will keep the DOM element in the page, but add a `display: none` style to it, effectively hiding it from view.

Check the console output to see that the element is still there, and the style was applied to it.
You should get something like this:

```html showLineNumbers=false
<strong class="the-answer" style="display: none">…
</strong>
````

## `v-if`, `v-else-if`, `v-else`

A similar directive is `v-if`, which will actually add or remove the element from the DOM based on the condition. Beyond that, it allows you to have more control over the rendered markup, since you are not limited to an expression, but have full DOM elements to work with.

`v-else-if` and `v-else` are hopefully self explanatory, but they allow you to chain multiple conditions together to render different elements similar to what we have in programming languages such as JS.

```file:/src/App.vue title="App.vue" /v-if="[^"]+"/ /v-else-if="[^"]+"/ /v-else\s/ collapse={1-16, 18-27} {"Keeping this to show you the difference":28-34} /latest-version/ {"Now we can add DOM elements, style them, etc.":55-57}
-
```

Now on the console, you get something similar to this:

```html showLineNumbers=false
<strong class="the-answer" style="display: none">…</strong>
<p class="check-latest">…</p>
(2) null
```

Meaning, that only 1 of the divs was rendered, but the other 2 were not added to the DOM at all, since they both evaluated to `false`.
