---
title: Interpolation (revisited)
---

# Interpolation (revisited)

> Again?

Well, yes. But 🐻 with me. This will be cool to know.

Now that we know about directives, there is a couple that would be worth knowing even if you don't use them that often.

## `v-text`

This is the first one, and it essentially does the same as the moustache syntax `{{ }}` for text interpolation. Not too shabby.

```vue /v-text=/ showLineNumbers=false
<h1 v-text="message"></h1>
```

Except for the case when you want to only render partial text inside your element, because the directive will replace the entire content of the element.

```vue showLineNumbers=false
<h1 v-text="message">
  This text will be replaced {{ message }}
</h1>
```

You even get a compilation error if you tried it <ButtonShowSolution />

And if you are using a tool like ESLint for your project, [there is a rule](https://eslint.vuejs.org/rules/no-child-content.html) that prevents you from using it that way too.

## `v-html`

::warn
This one can be a foot gun if not used carefully. You could open up your application to :tooltip-trigger{id='xss-attacks'}[XSS attacks]. So always be sure you trust the content you want to render here. Rendering user input is a bad idea.
::

Having said that, there might be times where this directive comes handy. So let's check it out.

You use it like this:

```file:/src/App.vue title="App.vue" /v-html=/ /rawHtmlContent/ {"Note we use different HTML tags here":7-9} collapse={19-28}
-
```

::tooltip-content{id='xss-attacks'}

> XSS attacks occur when an attacker uses a web application to send malicious code, generally in the form of a browser side script, to a different end user.

> Because it thinks the script came from a trusted source, the malicious script can access any cookies, session tokens, or other sensitive information retained by the browser and used with that site. These scripts can even rewrite the content of the HTML page.

Read more at [OWASP - Cross-site Scripting (XSS)](https://owasp.org/www-community/attacks/xss/)
::
 