---
title: The Playground
---

# The Playground

This is a special playground, and it is the result of lots of work that I am really proud of. But let me tell you how it all started many years ago:

## In the past

I learned AngularJS (so 1.x, the OG) through a lot of reading the official docs and some [egghead videos](https://egghead.io/). But also through [a book](https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/angular-basics-free-interactive-book-angularjs-chris-smith) that I unfortunately can't show you anymore because the site was taken down.

All I can do is describe it for you: it was essentially what I am trying to accomplish here with the Amoxtli Vue project. A place where you could not only "read the theory" but see the technology in action. It had some **embedded** :tooltip-trigger{id='repl'}[REPL] like portions where you could see Angular working first hand. It was soo freaking cool!

## My first attempt

That way of learning was something special for me, and I kept that in the back of my head for years. I created my first attempt at doing something similar with what I envisioned as an [interactive page to learn Vue](https://notes-on-vue.ackzell.dev/). But that project, as much as I enjoyed working on it didn't quite feel the same.

It was "disconnected" and "patched together" with resources from all over the place. It was slides from one website, a separate repo for tests, CodePen embeds for the code examples. Being able to embed the videos was nice, I have to admit.

## Some years later...

At one point, I came accross this :tooltip-trigger{id='vue-live'}[[vue-live](https://vue-live.surge.sh/)] component that reminded me of my first experience with the angular book!

Later on the official [Vue Playground component](https://play.vuejs.org) was published and I thought that it would be really awesome to get something like that instead of just embedding CodePen on the page. (Don't get me wrong, Pens are an excellent way of fiddling with tech, but it's just not the same experience IMHO).

Very very smart people also found a way to [run node in the browser](https://blog.stackblitz.com/posts/introducing-webcontainers/). (Yes, we went full circle. I know 🤷🏻). And then the same company created [TutorialKit](https://tutorialkit.dev/).

So you could say that the stars aligned and so many things came together in the web dev world in such a way that my original vision felt soo very achievable for the first time in many years. I finally started working on my vision again!

I used TutorialKit and managed to make it work, look and feel just the way I wanted it. But it wasn't quite enough.

I was aware that [https://learn.nuxt.com/](https://learn.nuxt.com/) was a thing, but when I started working on Amoxtli Vue I thought TK was explicitly created for my use case and so I just kept plowing through.

This is how I presented the project originally:

::YouTubePlayer{videoId="\_eyFYkbtl40" title="yehyecoa-vue" duration="11:03min"}
This talk will be a high-level introduction to the Vue framework, covering its origin, architecture, design philosophy, ecosystem and (some) comparison with other mainstream frameworks.
::

It is essentially 2 projects: the multimedia platform as well as the playground itself. I managed to communicate the two as I mentioned, but the workflow to make them work just doesn't quite feel right. As of this writing I don't have a video explaining what it takes to make it work but I might record it in the future.

Anyway, so this I think will be all moved to the new tech stack but you can see I had my beloved `yehyecoa-vue` working "fine" at one point:

::YouTubePlayer{videoId="FQa1vJdseDg" title="yehyecoa-vue" duration="11:03min"}
This talk will be a high-level introduction to the Vue framework, covering its origin, architecture, design philosophy, ecosystem and (some) comparison with other mainstream frameworks.
::

::YouTubePlayer{videoId="I73zTR3OIqQ" title="yehyecoa-vue" duration="06:06min"}
This talk will be a high-level introduction to the Vue framework, covering its origin, architecture, design philosophy, ecosystem and (some) comparison with other mainstream frameworks.
::

::tooltip-content{id='repl'}
Read Eval Print Loop.
Read more about them [here](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Read%E2%80%93eval%E2%80%93print_loop)
::

::tooltip-content{id='vue-live'}
Just in case the link doesn't take you to the demo website, [here is the repo for the project](https://github.com/vue-styleguidist/vue-live).
::

## Yes, but

Until... I decided hacking my way around the limitations I found with the tech was maybe not something really healthy in the long run. So I gave the Nuxt project another, closer look. So close a look that I started adding more and more features to it, and **naturally, being Vue it was such a fun experience to me!**

There was also a bit of _guilt (???)_ in my mind because "the platform I am building to help you learn Vue is not built on Vue".

So this entire rewrite came to be. This is essentially a fork of `learn.nuxt.com` on steroids, with my vision of what a multimedia platform for learning a technology would look like and the features I really want to add to it.

This new platform has the same features (and maybe even more) that I will explain in a more recent video:

```text
  <MORE RECENT VIDEO GOES HERE>
```
